# Examples of Radical Hospitality

## Add your example below this line...
_______________________________________________________________________________________________
1. I think there might be an inherent tension between being hospitable to the people in the Hangout and being hospitable to people who are commenting on the YouTube feed or on Twitter.This doesn't really advance our thinking about definitions, but it might feed the examples thread. Or maybe it does - is it definitional to consider to whom we are hospitable, and when? [Joe Murphy](https://github.com/murphyjoe)
1. What does all this look like? It might be noticing something small for instance someone just liked a tweet and reaching out to them and asking if they would like to join a session. It means paying attention to who is being invited and making sure that diverse voices are part of the group. It means advocating for VC to be at the conference with an organizer that does not understand us or may even flat out not want us there. It is asking if people onsite can accommodate a different meeting time to make things easier for those in other time zones. It is being excited about new ways to provide access in ways that may have technically been around for some time but that people just don't necessarily do. And the thing is sometimes it is uncomfortable and often it does not feel "good". If you simply want to make people feel good then Ms. Manners will do just fine. If you want to listen to diverse voices to meet them where they are and welcome them in the ways that they want to be welcomed while challenging power structures - well that is where the radical part comes in. [Autumm Caines](https://github.com/autumm)
1. In VC, it's when people stay up til late hours to host/participate, when people persist in the hangouts when their audio/video/internet is bad, that we don't really have agendas/talking points, just that on site people give away from the precious time of conference experience, and hosts do crazy scrambling sometimes to get a spot or to use their hotspot when the wifi is bad.
Would also add the ways Maha and Autumm and a few others will go to extreme reach out to message people who mention/message @VConnecting - that's a very personal welcome. [Alan Levine](https://github.com/cogdog)
2. For case 1, could the conference that is hosting the Vconnecting create a way (not sure what) to collect questions from the more shy audience. Maybe an app with a QR code?? Just playing around with my imagination. The second is harder to imagine, how can we include those who are denied access to technology, nevertheless are interesting in knowing more about the topic discussed?? Not sure yet. I might come back later when something occurs to me. [Caroline Kuhn](https://github.com/carolinekuhn)
2. Learning people's names and introducing them to others by name. Contributed by [Nate Angell](https://github.com/xolotl).
3. Coming early to events and staying late, to make room for informal conversation or more private discussion. Contributed by [Joe Murphy](https://github.com/murphyjoe)
4. Making space for others in conversation, especially to hold the stories of newcomers. Contributed by [Joe Murphy](https://github.com/murphyjoe)

